---
title: Day 18 - notes
layout: course_page
---

### ebird
#### Summary
* Birdwatching on property being allowed
* Data put into ebird
* Data made public and now there are impacts to the property owner

#### Data collected
* Bird observations - not for a particular project

#### Variables in the data
* species
* location
* location / habitat - probability of occurance

#### Data scale
* large

#### Ethics
* should an observer make this data available publicly?
  * what should he have done before publicizing?
  * what is the expectation to protect the species?
* does a property owner have a right to privacy? property use?

#### Benefits / costs
* save a species!
* cost of preservation to an individual?

### Rooibos tea

#### Summary
Data on tea as a sustainable source of income for low-income farmers in S. Africa.

#### Data
* Individual researcher with particular targeted data for a particular study

#### Variables
* Native v GMO tea plants
* rate of production of tea
* rate of growth / decline of other species
  * size?
  * diversity?
* greater growth of Rooibos -> decline in diversity of other plants

### Scale
* this is where the tea grows
* answer the question as is

#### Ethics
* farmers making money are mostly white - benefit
* wild type v farmed type 
  * affects how much farming can be done
* more plants -> less biodiversity

### Clean water
#### Summary
Wetlands purify water. Mining erodes wetlands = less clean water.

#### Data
* levels of peat - metal contamination
* researchers - targeting specific data from specific wetland

#### Correlations
* higher erosion v water purification potential

#### dataset size
* Is there a way to collect this data on a large scale to understand a general trend?

#### ethical
* locals need clean water, otherwise there's a cost for artificial purification
* make money mining
* species conservation - species are harmed by metals in the water
* wetlands in S Africa are rare - species may go extinct

### Frogs

#### ethics
* people can be focused on their next meal
* how do align our (1st world) values with people in places we believe should be conserved
