---
title: Day 2
layout: course_page
---

Note: check out the [Equifax data breach](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/07/business/equifax-cyberattack.html) at some point


### What are you thinking about data after the first class / readings / video?

* implications for safety (detailed crash data)
* effects on how we live - potential improvements to life
* potential to look for answer in technology always
* computers' work with data may affect jobs
* data on students (you!)
  * might help people 
* lots of data and maybe not enough ethical guidelines
* recognition of patterns but not necessarily cause for the patterns
* data used to predict future
* businesses use data and trends to make decisions about future

### Where would you find information on someone or something?
* Facebook
* Google
* whitepages
* linkedin
* instagram
* town public records
* peers
* voter records
* uri's directory
* the census

### Information that other people have on you ()?
* medical records
* social security / government
* employment history
* bank (note the Equifax breach)
* location
* search history (google)
* facebook (likes)
* school records
* 23 and Me

### What information can you find?
* address, phone number
* sports records from high school
* birthday
* family members
* employment
* high school
* tweets (another source of information)
* value of someone's house

### Does what we "know" affect our decisions?

### What do we (as a society) need to know to make decisions about what happens with data?
* who can see the data
* what is the data being used for
* why is it available (in the first place)
  * public record
  * ?
* does someone have to pay to get it
* can we make it private?
* did you know it was being collected?
* what's in those legal agreements?
* is it necessary to collect data?
* can we get rid of data if it's stolen
* how do preferences of an individual conflict with preferences of society

### What are the arguments for keeping data private and public?
#### Benefits for public data
* mapping viruses (health record data)
* patterns of crime (and know where to police)
* save money - know when to buy
* predict traffic and accidents - makes driving easier and safer
* keep students in school by supporting them

#### Benefits for private data
* prevent identity theft
* government shouldn't know everything about citizens
* otherwise people with access has advantage, which perpetuates class structure
* businesses know when to markup prices
* minimize data available on younger people
