---
title: Day 6
layout: course_page
---

Sakai assignment / attendence / preparation:
Write down everything you can remember about the videos and readings due today.

### Points about the crime map
* Seeing crimes near playgrounds
  * supports more policing in these areas, particularly due to children
* Overall trend toward less crime
  * variation
  * cause? more data
* more crime in the summer
  * correlation example! lots of things happen because it's warmer
* homicide in communal areas
  * maybe hints about where to police


Consider the data collected and the use of that data. Make sure to use the evidence provided.
### Crime analytics are good and morally acceptable
* Save money if we only lock up people who really need it (greater good!)
* Decreased crime rate - Camden had evidence
  * greater good!
* Reduces human bias - individual rights to equal protection of life/property
* Profiling is based on statistics
  * potential for more accurate arrests?
  * potential to reduce crime (greater good)
* Analytics can be based on individual actions
  * Milgram's tool for risk assessment is based on individual behavior eg prior convictions

### Crime analytics are not worth the moral cost and price of individual rights
* Negative associations with people unfairly - violates individual rights to be judged by own actions
* Unfair targeting and creates bias - violates individual rights
* People live by a community standard
* Analytics may not be applied fairly even if they could
  * what if analytical tools include your neighborhood or friends' behavior as predictive of your behavior
* have we really given the gov't the right to our life/property such that someone can arrest us or lock us up?
